So far, we've talked about
using Monte Carlo to learn
state-value functions
for a fixed policy.
This time, we'll focus on
learning action values.
By the end of this video,
you'll be able to estimate
action-value functions
using Monte Carlo
and understand the importance of
maintaining exploration in
Monte Carlo algorithms.
Learning action values is
almost exactly the same process
as learning state values.
Recall that we learned
the value of a state by
averaging sample returns
from that state.
Conveniently, the same process
works for action values.
We collect returns
following a policy from
state-action pair and
then take their average.
But why do we care about
learning action values at all?
Action values are useful
for learning a policy.
They allow us to compare
different actions
in the same state.
Then, we can switch to
a better action if
one is available.
This is only possible
if we have an estimate
of the values of
the other actions,
but this can be tricky.
Let's consider learning
the action-value function
for a deterministic policy.
Imagine an action that is
never selected by the policy.
The agent will never observe
returns corresponding
to that action.
We won't be able to form
an accurate Monte Carlo estimate.
The agent must try
all the actions in
each state in order to
learn their values.
This is the problem of
maintaining exploration in
reinforcement learning.
Let's think about
a real-world example.
Imagine walking home along
the road you usually take.
Recently, a new road
was built nearby.
If we don't ever try the new way,
then we couldn't know if
it was actually better.
One way to maintain exploration
is called exploring starts.
In exploring starts,
we must guarantee that
episodes start in
every state-action pair.
Afterwards, the agent
simply follows its policy.
Consider the grid world
on the screen.
Let's see how exploring starts
works with a policy shown in red.
Exploring starts will
randomly sample a state and
action at the start of
an episode shown in blue.
In this case, the blue action
is not the same as the red one.
After the initial action,
the agent will follow
the red policy
until the episode ends.
We must be able to set
the start state in
this way to evaluate
a deterministic policy,
like we can in this grid world.
This may not always be possible.
Other exploration strategies like
epsilon-greedy can be used
to evaluate stochastic policies.
We will talk more
about that later.
In this video, we described
the Monte Carlo algorithm
for estimating
action values and discussed
the importance of
maintaining exploration.